# Hello, World.

My name is __kchro__. I decided to create this for personal, professional, and educational purposes, and I hope that through this blog, I can make a small, useful contribution to the Internet.

I am a __Japanese-American__ college student at __Stanford University__, studying __Computer Science__ and __Philosophy__. I will be graduating in a couple of months, and I plan to begin my career in __natural language processing__. For me, the motivation for this blog is to keep myself focused, and I mean that in several different contexts.

1) Putting my thoughts into words on paper is how I can think most clearly.

2) My career path is going to be somewhat unconventional, and I need direction. I certainly expect my goals to change over time, but I want to be more methodical in how I set these goals.

3) I want to make this public to keep myself accountable for writing and thinking sharply, and I will use this to develop my professional identity.

## Self-Introduction

I grew up bilingually in California, and language has always been a large part of my identity. For me, speaking in Japanese is like using my non-dominant hand; I've always known how to use it, but I just use my right hand more. I took formal Japanese classes until I was about ten, but when it was getting in the way of my other extracurriculars, I decided to quit. I barely used Japanese in middle through high school and quickly forgot how to read and write kanji. I was quite shocked myself at how stilted my Japanese had become in eight years. When I started college, I took a Japanese placement test, and I absolutely bombed. I ended up writing in the margins of the exam, apologizing in hiragana, "I can't read any of questions, but I can speak Japanese, I swear!" I was humbly placed into first-year, third-quarter Japanese. It was below my grammar level, but my language skills had become so lop-sided that it was a good place for me to get my bearings. That'll be important in a moment.

At Stanford, I was quickly interested in the __CS+X program__. As I understand it, this is an experimental major designed to get CS students to take humanities courses and vice versa. The idea was that a double major would be nearly impossible since there are so many credits and only so much time, so Stanford introduced a hybrid major that reduced the credits required for CS and for the humanities major (call it X) and required a capstone senior project incorporating CS and X. The only problem was, nobody wanted to do it. I don't think that I know of anyone else in the program at all, let alone for CS+Philosophy. I enjoyed it, though, since the CS+Philosophy joint-major allowed me to get deeper into both fields than, say, your average Symbolic Systems major.

This culminated in one quarter my junior year when I took __CS224N__ (Natural Language Processing), __PHIL181__ (Philosophy of Language), and __JAPANLNG22__ (2nd year, 2nd quarter Japanese) concurrently. With CS and Philosophy, I always saw intertwining threads between the subjects. In logic classes, we discussed similar topics like DeMorgan's Laws and homographies, and in philosophy of mind classes, every conversation about consciousness was about two jumps away from a conversation about artificial intelligence. However, in this quarter, all the threads came together: foreign language, computational language, and theoretical language. It was really interesting to get three modes of thinking about language at once, and I would like to believe that all three of these modes are necessary (but probably not sufficient) to get the theory of language right.

## Career Goals

I mentioned earlier that my career path is probably going to be unconventional. I do not know the demographics of the field very well but based on my experience of crawling LinkedIn for job postings, there is a high demand for Master's or Ph.D's in the machine learning space. For this reason, I decided to apply for a coterm in Symbolic Systems, but I was told that I did not have enough experience in research to be a good fit for the program. This put me in a tailspin, since I only had a quarter left to find a job before graduating.

I was discouraged from getting into machine learning, and I began to feel the desperation of my situation. I had a few NLP projects under my belt as well as a couple internship experiences that related to language but not deep learning. As you can imagine, this is not very competitive compared to a professional degree. I ended up applying for general software engineering positions, including for Big N positions. I made it to a couple on-sites but did not make the final cuts, probably due to less-than-stellar performances on a couple coding interviews and not having the right background for general software engineering. I am a little worried that I had specialized a bit too much for an undergraduate but not enough to compete with graduate students.

I still have to think more deeply about what I will do in my career. At this point in time, I think that the best course of action is to further specialize in NLP, and if I can get enough experience, or maybe just the right experiences, I can break into this industry. I will try to articulate my reasoning in a future blog post, but I currently want to work in Japanese NLP. I believe that I am in a rare position to understand the nuances of both Japanese and English and to leverage those differences for NLP.

## Conclusions and Convictions

In the short-term, I have accepted an offer to work for a small startup in San Francisco as an NLP intern. To be honest, I do have reservations, but this is a chance I am willing to take to make it into the industry. It was a difficult position to find, and I am grateful that my first foray into the industry is actually in NLP. Timing is important, and I worried that if I wait too long to gain industry experience, I would miss my chance.

In the long-term, I have several objectives. First and foremost, I want to apply for graduate school again. This time, I will apply to more programs and demonstrate a better sense of what I want from a graduate degree. Second, I want to work in Japan, at least for a few years. Again, timing is important, and the sooner I go, the easier it will be for me to assimilate. Finally, I want to prove to myself and to anyone who cares that I am capable and competent.

Cheers,

kchro
