#  "Deep Learning" Goodfellow et al. (2016), Chapter 1

I just ordered a copy of "Deep Learning," and I wanted to do a chapter-by-chapter review. It is actually available [here](http://www.deeplearningbook.org/) for free. I will just go over the parts that I thought are interesting and digest each chapter into a 5-10 minute read. I will pitch the ideas in this book for someone who is a beginner at machine learning.

The funny thing about artificial intelligence is that it is actually a fairly old idea. According to this book, the first ideas about deep learning came about in the 1940's. I took a class with Professor [Jay McClelland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_McClelland_(psychologist)), and I was shocked when I found out how much of an impact he and his colleagues had on deep learning twenty or thirty years ago. He told our class that when they first started doing psychology research with perceptrons and parallel distributed systems, many of the established researchers were very skeptical of the application of neural networks in neuroscience. Sure enough, we often see neural networks conflated with how the brain actually works, but this book is careful not to make that leap.

> Today, neuroscience is regarded as an important source of inspiration for deep learning researchers, but *it is no longer the predominant guide for the field*. The main reason for the diminished role of neuroscience in deep learning research today is that *we simply do not have enough information about the brain* to use it as a guide. (pg 14-15)

Obviously, computers have developed immensely since the 80's, and neural networks have made a comeback because we finally have the computation necessary to make deep learning work. It is booming field, and it is a very exciting time to be in AI.

This chapter name-drops a few deep learning concepts, but I assume that it will go into more detail later on. Perhaps for the layman reader, I will try to explain what exactly deep learning is, and how it fits into our understanding of artificial intelligence.

I would say that Artificial Intelligence can be broadly construed as any system that can autonomously perform any sort of cognitively demanding task. What makes a system intelligent is perhaps an epistemic question, but I think that it is best to set a low bar for minimal intelligence and work up from there. For example, let's say that we programmed a translation system from English to Japanese using thousands of hand-programmed grammar rules. This is a cognitively demanding task (translation) executed without a brain.

So what makes deep learning "learning," and what makes it "deep?" In short, it basically comes down to how much work you give to the computer. You can let the computer try to learn the rules (i.e. machine learning), and the system is "deep" if you give the computer a certain degree of flexibility in finding those rules.
